all right welcome everyone we're
live-streaming this just so that
everyone knows this is the first ever
broadcast of the open protocol
discussion which is a biweekly meeting
in which we discuss and plan for
upcoming changes in and improvements to
the Stuber protocol generally these
meetings are to review core advancement
proposals also known as caps which
suggests new features and improvements
to the protocol
sometimes we also talk about the process
for perfect call improvement and we're
going to do a little both in this
meeting first we'll talk about two caps
and one issue that outline proposed
changes those are all for possible
inclusion in protocol 14 and then we'll
cover an issue that relates to the
process for the creation accounts
finally I'll just touch a little bit on
the process for orchestrating network
upgrades because we've learned a lot
upgrading to protocol 13 which is has
yet to happen so we published some pre
reading requirements for this meeting
there in the event description so if
you're following along you may want to
look at those so that you can keep up
and there's also an outline of the
agenda on the left of the screen I
believe and without further ado I guess
we'll just jump in I wanted to start
this out with a protocol 13 update so
that's the first agenda item basically
after surveying the ecosystem we decided
to push the upgrade vote two weeks is
supposed to be today that was gonna be
June 18th to give people more time to
prepare basically most of the Stellar
based businesses that we talked to are
ready right now but several crypto
exchanges aren't and we just wanted to
give them a little bit more time so they
don't break so that's the protocol 13
update news any questions okay cool
things that we have to talk about our
caps that are potentially for a
potential inclusion and protocol 14 the
first is cap 23 to part payments it's
been around for a while we've had a lot
of discussions about it the current
version is pared down from where it
started basically it creates a new
ledger entry called a claimable balance
into new operations that allow you to
create and claim a club level balance
the idea is to be able to separate
sending and receiving of a payment so
that you can send a payment to an
account that isn't prepared to receive
it cap 23 is there anything else that I
mean we talked about this a lot is there
more discussion that needs to happen
about this doesn't want to have any
questions comments Jonathan drove do you
feel like you've gotten the feedback you
need I think I think we're ready to go I
think the only outstanding thing here is
that based doing what we decided two
weeks ago or whatever the last time we
met was I think two weeks ago where this
isn't in the proposal yet but instead of
trying to send funds back to you know in
basically instead of like trying to do
this thing where it's like oh you try to
send them funds back to the to the
creator but if you fail you send them to
the recipient we're not we're not gonna
do that anymore as we decided it's not
reflected in the proposal yet and
instead we're just gonna you know
unreturnable funds go to the feet pool
basically we're already working on that
in the implementation but the proposal
hasn't been updated yet I just wanted to
mention that but everything else is as
we agreed I have a question the question
is if I wasn't clear to me reading the
proposal if the account that's the
created buyer or weak at 33 becomes the
sponsor do they always have the
possibility of claiming back at the
claim or balance or does the creative
the creating account you need to add
themselves as a claimant to the other
claim of I so the the creating
accountant doesn't have any special
privileges relative to any other account
it was only there for this bookkeeping
about returning the about return
in reserve but it's not it's not special
in any other way you know if we took the
approach of like always destroy the
reserve then we wouldn't even have that
information there one thing I will
mention is like we're not like that
created by field isn't gonna exist
anymore like the cap 33 functionality is
going to supplant it so there won't even
it won't even be there anymore it won't
look special anymore relative to any of
the other sponsorship things but no
there's nothing special about it
does that answer your question me yep
great okay so if there are no other
questions the plan here is that I'm
going to the the people who are eligible
to vote on moving this into final
comment period will email me by the end
of the day tomorrow and if this if they
agree to move this into final comment
period we'll post on a mailing list get
final comments from anyone out there in
the community and go from there sound
good
cool next on the agenda capped 33 also
for potential inclusion and protocol 14
sponsored reserves this proposal allows
an entity to cover the reserve for
accounts controlled by another party
without getting that other party control
to the reserve it basically extends
account and ledger entries so they
record pertinent information about
sponsorships creates new operations to
initiate and terminate sponsorship and
update sponsorship information for
existing ledger entries and so the goal
is to allow people like asset issues and
wallets to cover the reserves for users
this one landed more recently and so I
guess my first question is does anyone
have any comments questions or
suggestions about the sort of recent
version of this that Jonathan turned in
I had a question in order to use this
stuff you have to have creation of the
sponsor the sponsorship happens by one
account and then there's a closing out
and that happens by the other account
right to make sure the this thing is
sandwiched properly with angel not
supposed to authorize question is how
does it work him like a workflow a kind
of vibrant like workflow and a great
Lee's account I was struggling to kind
of see in my head what the path was
because you have to get the the account
the two accounts to coordinate with each
other do we have an example of that
somewhere what could somebody talk me
through it
enough revived
so that certainly should answer this we
might also have more context on this
than me so if you feel comfortable
taking this money I would appreciate
that but otherwise I will do it yeah I
can I can talk about it I actually also
have a question about this and a concern
about how specifically in the situation
that that Eric brought off by creating
accounts but yeah so I think if it was
to work how to read in the proposal the
the client a client on the server would
have to be negotiating so the clients
gonna make some initial hello that
starts off the process the server's
going to create the transaction assign
an account that can use that sequence
number for the duration of this whole
handshake the transactions going to have
to be signed by them and passed back to
the client sigh and and then submitted
say there is like this back and forth
negotiation that has to happen the sower
or the service that's creating and
sponsoring create an account and
sponsoring it can't do it on its own
does that answer your question Eric yeah
I guess so although I start having more
questions then like what happens if the
account doesn't exist just fine so do
you think it would make sense to explain
this in a non normative section of the
document I think we actually need a new
set for this and it's very analogous to
what set 8 is to cap 18 basically how
does how do you actually do to the
negotiation off chain and then before
you submit to the network so I would I
think that Lee because you guys are
gonna be probably one of the first
implementers of this it would be great
to have you guys figure out what makes
sense to you and then inform the rest of
the ecosystem or ask for comments yes I
think so I actually have a concern with
this so my understanding of why we have
that second that's that last transact so
their last operation to confirm and
close it out he's
we made what we want we see value in the
account that's being sponsored
confirming that they actually are okay
with being sponsored and I think a
problem with that so I think that works
for a lot of cases where the account
being sponsored can be the account where
the sequence number is coming from but
for the create account operation I think
this is going to be really difficult at
scale because the the service the
sponsor is going to have to lock up an
account with a sequence number during
that process of that negotiation and I
think that's gonna be I think that's
going to be problematic enough that this
way that could prevent this from scaling
and we really want this to work
sponsorship to work at a significant
scale because it's primarily for an
enterprise that's going to be sponsoring
lots of accounts so I'm wondering if
like if we're putting too much value on
what this soul's
want the problem of the souls and if
this will create a larger problem yeah
that's a good question I mean there's
there's definitely like this this is not
the only sequence number provision
problem in in the world of Stellar for
sure and I think I think given the like
you know fee bump improvements that are
coming in protocol 13 this is kind of a
step backwards in that regard for this
particular issue I am a pretty strong
believer that there are a lot of
advantages to making this like double
signature requirement I mean like I
think we're gonna be here for months
otherwise just in the sense of like me
going through and just like making sure
that everything is still going to work
and doing sanity checks on everything
because it weakens the
backwards-compatibility constraints a
lot
that being said like David was at our
last meeting talking about I think you
actually sent an email about this which
I'm going to confess to not having read
as good as I feel have read it it's not
the startup mailing list I can I can
post a link to it somewhere else if you
want yeah
review it after this now because it's
seeming more relevant and I wanted to
start by saying like whatever I'm about
to say is like definitely not gonna
happen in protocol 14 no matter what
because there's just no there's no time
but like as a longer-term solution like
providing some other kind of mechanism
to avoid this need to you know manage
sequence numbers for all sorts of random
stuff that that could be the long-term
solution to this kind of problem you
know using something like a hash
preimage or something else that you know
to do it Mike I think that that's like
the calm that was the concept right
David like some other kind of
authorization thing actually it was
basically saying that you can sign an
operation and then that up you don't
have to sign the transaction someone can
use the transaction he someone can
include that operation in a transaction
and it will not increase the signature
requirements on the transaction envelope
oh so that that would allow you to sign
the transaction envelope at a later time
basically once you've already tripped
like at a time when you can choose the
sequence number right like basically
let's say I want to allow you to add a
particular trust line to my account or I
want to allow you to authorize a
particular trust line on an account I
can just sign that one operation and
give it you and you can include that
operation in whatever transaction you
want yeah that's an interesting idea
that would that would mitigate this
problem I mean I'm kind of I'm kind of
like I'm kind of like backing out on
this basically and look I don't have a
good way to avoid this problem today
given this design and my stance is kind
of like the merits of this design
warrant searching for another way to
avoid this problem which is like a
general-purpose teller problem anyway
you know trying to solve it for this
specific issue isn't gonna solve it for
some future issue where we're going to
encounter the exact same thing and they
need to engineer some solution for that
as well and to be clear the problem
arises specifically with the create
account operation correct yeah yeah and
it specifically arises there just
because the sequence number is being
locked up by another party so you know
most the time
when you're creating accounts right now
it's not such an issue because the
service loss of the sequence number for
it for the time it needs it to be locked
up for but this is gonna be looked up
for the time requires to party to
negotiate yeah I mean one approach you
could kind of take it's basically the
stance that like you need to do
basically you set some time limit on how
long this negotiation can take you know
this off chain communication you say
like basically like hey I'm unless you
take like up to one minute to sort this
out with my server and otherwise you
have to like reinitiate this with me at
some later time and in that time again
you'll have one minute and then this
could allow you to use like a small pool
of accounts you know you only need to
maintain one minutes worth of accounts
basically to use a sequence numbers
obviously it's not amazing solutionn
it's not elegant it comes back to the
channel problem again
sounds like a minutes worth of accounts
for a high through but service is a lot
of accounts agreed well I'm not so sure
I mean signups are typically a very
small fraction of what happens on a
service and so that's I think when you
do create account I guess maybe you do
create account during escrow operations
as well so I'll make it might make a
trickier but I don't know my take is
like the you're probably gonna have to
build a channel system anyway with
things the way they are and so sure this
maybe means that you need a hundred
channel accounts rather than ten but
it's it's not really fundamentally
changing the situation maybe that's a
really optimistic I don't know yeah I
think
think where I can see the challenges is
just in typically at least how I know by
we have implemented this before is you
take a channel account you lock it for
some pre different you lock it for some
predefined operation that you're gonna
run in code so just becomes more complex
to say okay I'm gonna lock that based
off someone else's actions and or some
timeout
yeah I agree it's it's just building on
existing complex in here so yeah it's
not really new complexity also I think
the the timeouts are in the same order
of magnitude right like we're talking at
Terra transaction typically valid for
like let's say a minute
I would don't imagine you would go you
know longer than that for those
interactive things anyways I mean not
know inter don't directly I mean it's
really just you're physically passing
this to the client they kind signs it
and you know I know that it's probably
the same thing that's what I imagine I
think this is a good opportunity for us
at the SDF to put some open-source
example of how to actually achieve
something like this in a you know in a
fairly high throughput manner and like
John said I think that this specific
problem doesn't actually relate to cap
33 it's more of a general store problem
so maybe trying to solve for this right
now
is counterproductive I mean on the other
hand it would be nice to at least commit
to some way of solving it you know like
if there's an assay you know this is
gonna be a problem and what we do is we
approve cap 33 and then you know
followed by six months of discussing
which of like four approaches should we
take to solve this problem that that
could be an issue I don't think so I
think there are also you know like we
have to solve it in general like it's
not just for for that particular
operation right like you won't even like
a paycheck
18 you need some way of doing that
efficiently I guess happy yeah then
maybe they should be disgusting
maybe there should be just a short non
normative section of the cap that
discusses the need for some kind of
mechanism and then subsequently caps can
cite this you know will sort of provide
ammunition to get whatever a solution
would come up with over the line later
on yeah I think that's great now I'll
add that after this meeting or sometime
later this week just a little discussion
about how this is like it's an annoying
source of complexity it's probably worth
it nonetheless and it's just a
manifestation of a bigger problem that
we're fighting all the time and then
that and then the plan would be to
create some sort of group to solve this
larger problem like a working group but
but from what I understand this cap cap
33 we could move on to final comment
period because it seems like there's not
a way to do it that doesn't encounter
this larger issue is that correct yeah I
mean my stance that would be like it if
you avoid this issue you'll find a
difference like we'll find the other
issues that were problems with cap 31
which we rejected in favor of this so
it's like you can't avoid both sets of
problems you have to pick which one you
want
I'm picked this one this set of problems
only from the perspective that like
they're problems that are
general-purpose manifestations not not
single purpose and I think that the
other benefits are better is on top of
that but John you think you can add this
language before final comment period
yeah I I mean like we make modifications
yeah I mean like we make modifications
to these during implementation also and
then we're going to the implementation
period so yeah I mean I'll add the
language and it'll be there during the
final comment period for sure so you'll
add it and then we'll vote okay John
when John's added it I'll I'll submit it
to to eligible parties to vote on and
then we can see and if it it basically
if people are like no we don't think
it's ready we can bring it back in the
next meeting but if people look at it
and decide that it is we can go ahead
and fold it into final comment period
and open it up for final comments cool I
had one other question
other operations you said other
operations will make it semantics and
what its behave correctly proposal
that's Spencer that might include I'm
having a little trouble hearing you Eric
can you say that one more time
yeah the other operations need updated
semantics in order to behave correctly
can you just give like a high-level view
of what that might include is that
something we need to worry about it's
not something that we need to worry
about well it's something that I'm I'm
already worrying about I'm working on it
I was working on it right before this
meeting actually but basically but like
what's kind of what kind of needs to be
done is like everywhere where we do like
a where we change the like account
numbers of entries field we now need to
do it we now need additional logic to
say like hey like what's the response
err oh if there wasn't and then do what
we used to do if there was then we have
to do all this other stuff like oh like
check the sponsoring account still
exists it doesn't have to still exist
for example so like that's a new failure
mode I haven't worked out the precise
details on this because it's like I need
to kind of go to the implementation and
see what's gonna work and that's why
it's kind of very nebulous in the
proposal but the kind of consequences
you're gonna be like potentially a few
new failure modes that are only possible
with sponsorships and and basically just
just new code for me to write but every
other perspective everything will kind
of just like work the same like when a
create account works it'll just work and
you won't really be able to tell the
difference other than some sponsorship
the information will have changed okay
so it sounds like most this is internal
to the implementation but we might see
some new error codes yeah and like that
those kinds of changes are where like
like we have like the ledger entry
extension v1 and the account entry
extension v2 those changes are where
those things will we will be ma will be
maintained so you know that that's
pretty much what it comes down to okay
is there anything else there
to talk about in relation to cap 33 well
I feel like the plan right now is John
gets back to work that's this extra
session you send it out and see if it
gets voted in final comically but I
don't want to close it if there's still
questions just want to say that it's a
great cap John much better than cap 31 I
think I really like the whole moving
things to the off chain logic really
nice cover I appreciate that
great well then we will move on to the
next item on the agenda that's issues
622 which is about changing the
application of clothes fine basically it
changes the clothes time for a
transaction so it's set for the ledger
after the transaction gets a bike
because right now in a bank transaction
we use the clothes time decided during
consensus and that can create issues for
the transaction gets accepted but into a
ledger but fails later I think this is
just a just an optimization does anyone
have any issues with it does it feel
like something that should be worked on
for protocol 14 yeah it's an annoyance
basically false about contracts and we
are kind of hanging out those things
over time this is a small small item so
that's why well yeah I'm not sure I'm
not sure I understand the issue right
now who decides the time that's
evaluated against time balance it is not
about deciding the time this is about
all we reason about the time from a
transaction ready DT point of view
because of time balance right okay so
time downs are you know we look at we
compare it to the to the to some time
right right and right now we use the
time that were this tidy during the
consensus round right and this is wrong
and so in the wait time you're proposing
is to use the time from the previous
ledger
because the time from the previous
ledger was already decided when you were
checking for validity of the
transactions when they were submitted I
mean this seems somewhat dangerous this
means like if there's an outage it's
possible that we can apply a transaction
that's like an hour old or something
yeah that's yes and the first time make
also jump by an hour right so there's no
like with we have to decide I mean this
is not a you know that's just the way
they know you have to make a trade-off
you know what happens you have an outage
which transactions you want to reject I
guess so
like let's say that like we have an
option where I have a transaction that I
can submit that will trade X for Y or
something right and since I don't know
the value of x and y in an hour you know
like we agreed on this now so now I
could theoretically you know toss the
network and get like a free option to
you know basically make my decision with
an extra hours worth of information I
mean obviously the alternative is and
that's a lot harder is to remove those
transactions from the transaction set
and the things that we cannot do that
right now we have no way of doing this
right
consensus is still running like he can't
change the transaction set I mean I I do
change the transaction set I mean I do
see other ways of doing this and I
haven't you know haven't thought deeply
about this but just you know so another
thing if you do is for example when you
nominate a transaction set it could have
some expiration time or something and
then but that's not your fist okay you
know bit based on or you could kind of
like I'm not saying that you you would
have you would look at very DG based on
unlike some heuristic on the on the time
stand awesome another saying like you
know currently we sort of take the
largest transaction set when we're sort
of combining multiple nominated values
and now maybe we could take the the
largest transactions or the the
transaction set with like the most
number of unexpired transactions or
something but you still end up with some
expired transactions right that's the
issue here is that those guys what do
you do with them because it is basically
the the I guess the reason we have this
problem is the close time and
transaction set are kind of decided
separately could we could we modify our
validity checks to like I'm specifically
thinking about David's like one-hour
window thing that he was talking about
so this is still under the assumption
that we're gonna make the change
described in 622 but could we modify the
validity check such that you won't vote
for anything if you're not Byzantine
that is in basically it's like
transactions time bounds are checked
both using the last closed time and the
current time because then it's like you
wouldn't vote for something from an hour
ago because it wouldn't have been valid
using your current timestamp it has to
meet those conditions to work there's
the only vertical level change it's not
that you only if you do that you only
reduce the chance of having a bad time
stamp we don't make you don't eliminate
it and and so that the main I mean it's
the main issue here just that we have
garbage in in the set of transactions
that we can't charge right yeah right
now no it's not gathered I mean it's a
it's more like that we end up with
transactions that are accepted for you
know during consensus but because they
are now I graduated against a different
time stamped and the one from you know
when they were
nominated did now becoming valid so now
you have like those smart contracts
potentially getting dust right where if
I if I because you know they are valid
when consensus starts and now now
invalid during consensus and yeah they
are failed transactions and they will
consume that account number and now
maybe that smart contract is that way
they don't consume sequence number the
bug is but 622 that's what the core of
the problem is because you know we have
the invariant that anything that gets
into the ledger we're going to guarantee
we're gonna we're gonna take the fee and
we're gonna take the sequence number and
so did that's the thing that we're
betting law wants to combat here is you
know getting your your smart contract
broken by one of these like boundary
case time stamps well this is another
way to solve this would be say
authenticated operations so I feel like
there are other things that know why you
think that know how this has nothing to
do with the authenticated operations
this is time stamps
well the authenticated operation gets
rid of the problem of consuming sequence
numbers it the part of the part of the
problem here is how brittle a lot of
these protocols are because of like
sequence numbers right so the issue that
sometimes don't work right so like
you're saying like yet you could fix
certain smart contracts by using like
those you know this new you know like
basically use a different sequence
number basically from you know a
different account you offload the
sequence number some you know live
account basically but yeah that's not
what we are talking about we are talking
about you know sequence numbers in
general like today we do see do like
once in a while Ledger's will failed
time
you know in the in the set of trade
transactions I understand but I'm saying
that the the one of the arguments in
favor of this is that right now there
are annoying situations that break
certain protocols because a sequence
number gets consumed by a transaction
with an invalid time bounds and I'm
saying that well because of CAF 33
you've already said there's a need for
something and and one of the ways to do
that something would be the
authenticated transaction with the
authenticate operations not saying that
that's the right solution but it just so
happens that authenticated operations
also solve this problem all right no it
cannot hold it right like like you're
saying that no smart contract would ever
rely on on a time bound or something
like it yes no smart contract that
ideally smart contracts would not rely
on sequence numbers in a way that breaks
if the sequence number gets consumed by
an invalid transaction that doesn't
sound that plausible to me actually
because on Elections
if you do that right not only that but
you can't you can't do the bump sequence
trick without that and you can because
of the way I I mean at least though I'm
of the way I mean at least though I'm
not saying this is the right answer but
it's an existence proof that you can do
this right because of the way that
because the because the authenticated
operations can depend on there being
some other operation in the transaction
that other operation can be a pump
sequence right so we've got existing
smart contracts like what about ones who
already have this problem then they'll
have a
different problem if we do 622 Oh like
only a line the only reason you would
have a problem is the DOS situation if
you have like those funny time windows
normally it's more like starting from a
certain date this is valid you know
expiration you know if you have an
expiration and you don't write around
the expiration time I can see that this
is a problem regardless right we have
this is not a sole thing like well you
basically rely on the fact that the
network has a semi accurate time right
but in the event of a dirty not accurate
it's going to be off by some number look
I think that you know there's a problem
here I think that if you were to write
up like a requirements list my suspicion
is that I could you know propose some
alternative that doesn't look like the
proposal here whether that's better or
not I don't know but I think it would
probably be worth considering multiple
approaches based on a kind of specific
kind of like a slightly more detailed
description of the problem and like what
we're trying to achieve does anyone
object to taking that course basically
writing up a requirements list and
getting David an opportunity to come up
with an alternative solution that's fine
it doesn't have to be like you know I'm
not trying to create a lot of make work
here like you could just be you know a
couple simple examples of what what
we're trying to you know scenarios that
were tranqued where we're trying to
avoid a problem but I think honestly
that it would be it'd be good to think
about it a little more just from the
perspective that like I I want to try to
perspective that like I want to try to
understand that that da scenario well
like is it a problem or does it just
sound like a problem I'm not I'm not
sure that it's action
a problem but I'm also not sure that
it's actually not a problem it's a big
existential question so like I think
it's worth looking at least a little
deeper about this and making sure we
know what we're doing I think we're also
talking about that type of scenario is
quite a bit already on the mailing list
I think because David had this other
change to the timing bounce to remember
David like that was like what yoga at
this point I remember we went back and
problem on time bonds that's basically
is what ended up being replaced by cap
23 I think but in that proposal he had
some interesting new time bones right I
had like preconditions I think but there
were some discussions around like those
type of things like what happens when
you when you're like an attacker delays
the network you know what other type of
properties you are trying to get here
and maybe the issue is that we don't
fully right now we don't have basically
a written statement on what we expect
smart contracts developers to do when
you have this type of attacks I think
that's made it just you know one of the
other things that we need to think about
here yeah
so yeah it basically what I'm saying
is before someone invests the time to
like write a whole cap for this let's
just like get some requirements down and
just you know at a subsequent meeting
just talk through like whatever
approaches people have and come up with
an approach we think it's like the best
approach because there may be there may
be other approaches maybe not maybe I'm
wrong but that seems like a great
solution to me cool
any other discussion about this are we
ready to move on to the next item
great so the next item is issue 624
which is improved the cap process so it
clarifies the role of working groups
also it tends to take into account more
information about the impact of proposed
changes on downstream systems thoughts
questions discussion that we want to
have about this I mean I guess for me it
makes sense to to better figure out how
working groups create caps and who owns
them and and who participates in those
groups and I mean this proposal made a
lot of sense to me and then I think it's
just a question of starting to
experiment with it and seeing if it
works right like maybe like as
background like one nice when I wrote
this stuff like one of the things I also
took into account is that in the current
like process that we have actually
written in the criticals repo it says
that there is this I know mythical
creature that participates into the cap
process that's the body or whatever yeah
that's right right that doesn't exist so
and and basically as I really and also
you know with the way we've been working
more and more it seems to me that that
body was you know concept was more or
less a over-engineering in a way from
the protis point of view in trying to
take away
you know like room for the working group
to actually figure out who are the best
people to actually have in that working
group so I think like if we end up with
like more something more like what I'm
highlighting in this issue who would
remove the body from the process yeah I
mean just generally object to the word
buddy
it just sounds I just don't like the
sound of it okay but also I think if
it's something that we're not using and
it was the same thing that John brought
up on this with it with the test section
right like I guess that we need to just
look at the actual I guess it leaves in
the cap reading that defines the the cap
process and make sure that it actually
adheres to a process that we feel good
about and that reflects what we've
learned but then I think we also need to
be relying more strongly on working
groups right yeah and maybe like III
maybe this time we can I saw that Eric
had a question like what does it mean to
have the rest of the stack you know like
light up and all that like to me the
intention is to have the working group
think about the implications of that
change in a more holistic manner
basically if we need like very often
some of the changes at all we need a set
basically no the sap is not should be
basically written in parallel with the
cap you know by the working group if
that's the only way that that thing can
be used because that's how we are going
to find bugs in the cap another thing on
performance because I think Eric with
Erica maybe I don't somebody has asked
about performance I wanted people to
think about performance implications in
other systems as well like the working
group should be thinking about well the
cap itself or he talks about you know
the local performance impact but at the
same time for example one of the most
painful changes in protocol 13
is but it was very surprising to me it
was the the change that he column in
horizon right the table migration that
takes like nine hours
well whatever it's something you know
maybe we do would have it made some
changes I don't know like you know like
if we had identified this early on so
this is kind of thing I'm trying to to
get to is get you know sometimes changes
look trivial you know in the poor layer
by the implications up streams are just
terrible and I kind of want people to
think about those type of implications
early on so that we know we can make
adjustments into basically the working
group would figure that stuff out
document it as part of the proposal
submit it to this group with all that
documentation so that all the research
would be done you know yeah a little bit
more what we were talking about yeah and
to me that sounds great I mean the only
question that I have is a feasibility
one right like if we had the all the
right people to staff any given working
group that we wanted to create this
would work I just wonder if in reality
we're gonna run up against issues where
we just like we want to have three
working groups we don't have three
working groups of people with the
necessary insight just to build those
working groups
that's my only like feasibility concern
that make sense I mean we can you know I
run into that problem already and yes we
do and at the same time and I know my
response is that if we don't have time
to think about this maybe we should not
do it in that protocol version if we do
the due diligence you know that goes
with a specific change that means we're
not thinking about it right so I think
that the additional lift here which is
reasonable is to basically improve the
process of putting together working
grade so it's like improve what a
working group does define it better add
it to the cap process and then also get
better at putting working groups data
which is seems reasonable to me
and and my hope also made that maybe the
chair on the top would be if we have
more of those kind of lively discussions
that the working group level do they
should become quite be a bit more those
conversations I think end up being a
little more inclusive from a ecosystem
point of view because they are actually
touching a lot more different paths
right now I think the issues with any
thread on the dev mailing list that our
protocol changes they are so far removed
from the end from the actual developers
that nobody can really chime in right
they don't see how this is really
impacting them unless it's like you know
obvious so my hope is that yeah we can
maybe get a little more feedback early
on from the you know people that are
going to use that those things in the
future if anyone's watching this right
now is like I would love to be in a
working group in the future you should
email me just another org like I got it
you know I think it's gonna be about
going out and collecting people right
inside people with insight people who
are building stuff and making sure that
they understand the potential
implications that one of these chord
changes have and getting their insight
rate yeah that makes sense to me I like
the working group direction and being
more inclusive of you know people on the
horizon team or SDK team or even
application developers I think one other
element that seemed pretty central to me
that I didn't I didn't maybe I missed it
but I didn't really fully see it flushed
out in this this issue was was kind of
the contents of the cap and and having
an explicit section of the cap that
discusses the changes that we've made to
horizon so like to to Nico's point like
saying yeah we're gonna migrate this
column and within the base table we're
gonna change the schema this way I'm
going to add these endpoints we're going
to modify the go SDK to have these new
calls or deprecated this call that seems
pretty key to have as part of them for
understanding the downstream effects and
I I didn't really see it articulated
here
I mean that the
I mean like the issue by the way like it
was really to start the conversation
it's not the actual day for oh you know
what we're going to do on the on that
week me or whatever at the top level
I agree I mean I think
at the same time yeah who the cab become
you know more implementing
implementation you know focused I don't
know like I like that right now it's a
little more the spec level you know like
functional and not so much at the
you know - too low into the details
right and I think that if we have the
right participants in that working group
the implementation kind of pulls in
place more in github issues and so on
not in the actual dark like the actual
dock is more like tracking like the high
level like does that even make sense
right for all the systems involved and
depending on the change there may be a
cept that needs to actually certain cap
don't make sense without an accompanying
except and so there's no point in like
talking about you know what database
tables you're gonna migrate in the car
when there's like very associate itself
I also agree that this I think the cap
is the wrong place for this kind of
stuff the cap is evolving as its
implemented and then there's a key
there's like there's a point where it
becomes reasonable to think about the
details for downstream but the
high-level details can be thought of
separately and should be done in a
working group and I think most of the
time there should be a set associated
with the cap because something is
motivating this work right and that
should be the self yeah that's kind of
what I was gonna say Eric like maybe we
should have a new standard which is like
we don't accept caps that don't have sex
and this EPS might not be like a hey
here's some you know new off protocol
that you know climb server need to
implement or something like that new end
points it might just be like hey like
horizon is gonna be broken by this and
we know lots of people depend on horizon
so it's part of because that's that's
not oh and there can't be a rule right I
mean if we like fixed like when we fix
the bucket list or whatever you know
like that you know you don't need a set
always but like you know some when
you're adding a new feature like it
generally is gonna make sense to have a
step involved well maybe it's a question
that you have to answer does this
require a sensor is known link like so
maybe one of the header fields should be
like associated steps maybe there's
multiple ones right there's new feature
that can be used in two different ways
so so it's a kind of metadata thing that
needs to be out it well while we're on
the metadata this is this is kind of
minor but you know I mostly think that's
fine but I'd like to argue for keeping
the term author instead of recommender
and maybe having a maintainer instead of
an owner just because I want to make
sure that everybody who contributes to
writing a cap gets you know appropriate
credit and the term author kind of
suggests that you deserve credit for
something whereas recommender doesn't
necessarily carry that same connotation
I mean those are names from yeah I guess
they are from different worlds like the
names I used where the from the RACI
thing right so and that's why I stand
out
oh just doesn't race to use authors into
a for often no according to be read it
means several different things one of
which is how many things which like
definitely makes no sense in this
context yeah what what makes no sense
acceptor yeah yeah all names of
superheroes yeah
like we can try to tweak it as long as
we have clear definitions of what those
things means right yeah yeah I think
just to chime in again I I think like
just to chime in again I think like
what we're describing maybe is a little
bit closer to our current process and so
I'm worried it might fall into some of
the same pitfalls like I mean maybe it's
just kind of a terminology thing like in
my experience except did doesn't talk
about the rot changes the horizon end
points I I've never seen that in this
app and and I think I don't care what
document it's called exactly where it
appears but I think there needs to be a
link in the cap at least if not included
directly in it that explores changes to
horizon changes to the SDKs because I
think that's been the issue so far as we
have a disconnection between the cap and
then the implications it has downstream
in this nasty case so as long as we
cover that in some kind of dock maybe we
kind of change that aceptas to include
that yeah or we can do that posit ori or
some new place to store that particular
kind of dock right Mike yeah like I said
like a cap links to except in acceptance
to like a you know horizon working
document or something whatever we call
it
yeah I support this I just want to make
it clear that like we may not find all
this stuff at the right time right it's
good to think about it at some level but
like the the earthy change was very
subtle it's in its one line in a piece
of XDR that you have to notice and then
realize that actually that's implemented
within in 32 in horizon and then there's
all these consequences we are not gonna
get all the things so I wouldn't want to
like gate gate the cap and the only way
we get those is if we like release some
protovision of core and then it had a
long time to implement all the horizon
changes and discover them I think in the
same way that the cap evolves as scored
as their implementation some of the
Cottagers will become visible as you
think 3ds annotation and the SDKs or
horizon yeah yeah and my point was I
think this due diligence had to happen
before the cap gets into the final state
even if you missed some stuff I mean no
but the point is that you know what Eric
was saying for example all days that
change people have to actually go
through every change think about every
change because that's how we do right
the cap we have to actually think about
you know in detail what does it mean to
make that change in call right same
thing for the other systems I feel like
part of the surprise
with the feeching with the with the
change in columns in the horizon was
just how long it took right like it
maybe I'm wrong but I think it was hard
to know and so you started doing it like
oh man that copying and pasting like
basically creating these two new columns
is gonna take forever in like okay yeah
about that move yeah let alone I guess
but like in general right it's more like
we should be like maybe we shouldn't we
would not have identified this this free
change until what much later it's more
about the pattern right that we should
evolve if you think about you know like
oh there's this schema change coming and
maybe we don't
done exactly like the implication but we
know there's this big schema change yeah
yeah and then hopefully you know the
more eyes we get on that thing people
you know remember all when you make this
kind of change you know it's going to
you're going to take a hit yeah I mean I
definitely support this I support
through instant due diligence upfront
and trying to think it through at a
point where we can still make changes in
the cat that seems like a no-brainer to
me I'm just saying to understand all of
the implications is very difficult and
we're not going to sit down and think
really hard and figure that out just to
be sure okay I mean do you like the idea
of listener listening out the changes to
the horizon API for example before
finalizing the cap I like is this some
kind of summary that says what we think
the impact is our high level I just
don't know how detailed that can get but
we you know we'll try try our best and
so happens now the other is it says
representative group of stakeholders
which is I guess intentionally vague and
so we have to be careful that we don't
fall into the trap of thinking about the
consequences fall for something like
horizon and then forgetting something
else like maybe the consequences for
hardware wallets you know for example
yeah definitely yeah that's that's the
reason is vague is because basically
there is a when the working group is
kind of forming it should actually
decide who are the members right I also
think like those members might be
thinking over time that's something I've
been thinking this whole time or it's
like at the beginning like at the
beginning you need people to know how
poor works you know plus some people who
have like a reason to motivate this
thing and then as the core part of it
develops and it's like oh okay like we
have these ideas for how we could do
things like let's make sure we're like
none of these are offensive to horizon
or offensive to Hardware walls and then
you start roping those people in and you
got a different set of voices so
everybody gets to spend a day with John
what a present for everybody
okay I mean obviously that's needs
thought and work and it but I think that
it should kind of kicked it off and we
can talk that more I don't know that
we're gonna come to any greater
conclusion after this I mean it seems
like we could talk about this on on the
on the dead mailing list and eventually
I feel like we need to update the readme
or on the kathleen and probably like the
actual template for Cap's - and work on
working groups we should not even great
to work on working groups may be a way
forward is everybody can comment on this
issue that Nico's raised and we can
iterate a little bit because as he says
it's not the we're not saying this is
the dif we're saying his a starting
point so we should have had this
discussion great perfect so we'll start
the conversation there which is issue
624 in the protocol really cool it's
I'm just gonna take one minute and say
that you know obviously we're part of
the way through all of this impacts what
I'm the upgrade process protocol
thirteen you know we delayed the boat
through two weeks and I think we've
learned a lot about just better
notification so I think you know the
basic idea which I've post or is to work
out the timeline for horizon and SDK
readiness and I think these working
groups will help do that then to pose in
a great guide that tells everyone what
to do and where to find stuff message
all the relevant channels and then to
verify that key projects and the
ecosystem are ready basically get them
to write back to us and say we are ready
to upgrade then I think do the tests
enough upgrade then coordinate for the
public nib upgrade and then once an
upgrade happens we post an upgrade
notice with all the errors and any
information about how to use the new
features so it's like all concise and
that's again just a proposal that we did
most of that with protocol thirteen but
we didn't reach out specifically to key
organizations until later in the process
and it's gettin it's gettin it's gettin
somewhat better but I'm open to any
suggestions that anyone ever has about
how to improve the process whose a key
organization do we have like a mailing
list of key organizations or something
by the list yeah
is that anyone can join inotify
like places where anyone can join which
are all of our public channels are
notified out the wazoo right so like
they get first notification they get
notification every time that there's an
update and a week in advance so any
place where people opt in like but we
also need to reach out to people who
will not opt in to our own channels like
so specifically what too late this
protocol release is like making sure
that crypto exchanges where you know
they deal with a lot a lot of different
networks and Stellar isn't first and
foremost in their minds it's hard to get
their attention or get them to opt into
a channel so yes anyone can opt in and
we can check readiness or anyone goes
opted-in but we also need to do some
spoke outreach people who have
difficulty okay radical so that that's
the end of our first broadcasted Stellar
Protocol meeting how's everybody feel